Today is the second day of our new journey
into the battlefield.
We have to win people with love, compassion,
affection and dignity.
When we say it's a Vishwa Dharma, it's a Universal
Religion we belong to, first and foremost
thing, the essence of that, is peace.
The peace has to be within, to begin with.
You have to be peaceful within yourself.
If you are not peaceful, if you are playing
tricks with your ego, if you are just satisfying
yourself saying that you are peaceful, you
are sadly mistaken.
Peace is to be enjoyed within yourself.
It is to be felt within yourself.
So do not give wrong satisfactions to yourself,
do not give false notions to yourself.
Don't cheat yourself.
Peace has to be felt within yourself, and
if you are not feeling that, you shouldn't
come and ask me, "Mother, why I am not feeling
it."
Because I am not going to tell you that something
[is] wrong with you.
You have to work it out that you should feel
peaceful within yourself.
It is not that if you have too much of silence
outside, you feel peaceful.
The peace has to be within yourself.
You have it.
Your Spirit is absolutely peaceful -- Avyagra,
without restlessness.
There is no restlessness in your Spirit.
Absolutely peaceful and steady.
It is for you to feel it.
It is not for anybody else to certify you.
This is one thing.
Secondly, when I am telling you something,
you think I am not telling you.
It doesn't register in your brain.
You think I am telling it to X, Y, Z but not
to you.
You are not in it.
That's another sign [that] there is no peace.
Because there is no peace, there is no registration.
Whatever goes into your head, that is going
to work out.
But what I find [is] that people [who] have
concave personalities, then they receive it.
Those who have convex personalities, do not
register anything . The registration is so
poor that, whatever I say doesn't have any
effect on them.
Otherwise, whatever I say is a mantra.
It should have direct effect on you, and you
should feel that effect, that penetration
within you.
But as if it is for somebody else, as if it
is not for you.
This shows there is no peace within you.
Only the peace within can register whatever
is auspicious, whatever is nourishing for
your growth.
So try to make peace with yourself.
Do not fight with yourself, "Why should I
do it?", "I am so bad!", "I should not have
done it!"
-- all these we should not do.
Try not to fight with yourself, first of all.
Then you fight with me, "Why am I like this?
Why should it be like this with me?
Why is it I catch?
Why.
. . .?." How am I to answer such a question?
It is very aggressive.
I think it is very aggressive attitude of
many Sahaja Yogis to come and ask me such
a question, "Why...?"
Because I can't tell you what is wrong with
you because it is not in my culture.
You should find yourself what is wrong with
you . But it's not "what's wrong with you"
is the problem.
What is right with you is the attitude.
Whatever is right with you, put your foot
on that, establish yourself on that point.
And then develop yourself higher.
Peace is the keynote, as I said, for universal
growth of this Religion.
It is disturbed by many things.
Firstly, as I said, by yourself.
You shouldn't have funny ideas about yourself.
People have very funny ideas.
I see Sahaja Yogis, as soon as they get realisation,
or something better happens to them, they
start telling others how to do meditation,
how to stand up, how to give bandhan, how
to do this and that.
It's very very poor, is very low level.
Try to assimilate within yourself.
First grow yourself That growth itself, will
tell others how one should be.
Your own character, your own temperament,
your own nature, your own behaviour.
All this will tell others that this is a great
man and they will try to follow your example.
Example is the best teaching.
When the tree is small, even if he says "I
am great," nobody is going to sit under a
dwarf tree!
But when it is a big tree you can see the
shade and everybody knows it's a big tree
and they can come and sit under that.
You don't have to tell.
In the same way, when you grow, you don't
have to certify
that "I am great", it just works.
Now the peace within expresses, first of all,
[as] peace with others.
That is the first sign of manifestation of
peace.
Such a person doesn't use harsh words, doesn't
use cruel words.
But he's also not a person who is ineffective.
He's very effective, using very sweet and
nice words.
Maybe he begins by using harsh words, then
he mellows down and comes down to a position
where he is effective as well as he is very
mild and sweet.
Such a personality has to be developed -- outside.
So, peace with your friends, peace with Sahaja
Yogis.
If you cannot be peaceful with Sahaja Yogis
then you are no good.
Absolutely no good.
When you meet another Sahaja Yogi you can't
bark like dogs at each other, can you?
You leave three Sahaja Yogis together, you
end up with a big barking system.
They can't manage within themselves.
If there are hundred, then it's alright.
But you can't leave three and four here and
there.
So the peace should be with your brothers
and sisters.
They are all born out of My Sahasrara and
nobody has the right to insult, to be sarcastic.
Saying things which are harmful.
That's no friendship, that's no friendship.
It is a kind of a very subtle enmity that
you are carrying on in your hearts.
That cannot be forgiveness.
If you say sarcastic things to others, you
are not in the culture of Universal Religion.
You should be respectful.
The more respectable you are to each other,
the better it would be.
I don't know how to tell you this.
But say, there is a Sahaja Yogi, you shouldn't
call him like as you would call any Tom Dick
and Harry.
Like there's someone going.
"Eh Mr. X, come here!"
Now people don't even say Mister.
Please try to use their surnames would be
better.
Mr. So, Mr. So Mr. So.
.Would be better.
Because this modern style of not using the
surname has brought down the respect for each
other.
But I think, Sahaja Yogis should try a new
method and suggest to Me even better methods,
how to address each other, in such a way that
you respect others.
That respect will create that peace within
each other.
Suddenly you come out with remarks.
Very nasty remarks they are.
There's no sense in it.
That's not our culture.
We belong to Universal Religion, how can it
be that culture?
So, when you try to be peaceful with your
brothers and sisters, try to be extremely
respectful.
When you write letters to each other, you
say "My dear brother in Sahaja Yoga Such and
Such."
I have seen all communists do that.
Any body who belongs to any party does that.
It's a kind of a respect they have.
You can't talk like street people and ordinary
people because you are really extraordinary,
and all that is extraordinary has to be expressed
through you.
As I am talking to you of this new culture,
let us understand how in many nations, people
have adopted cultures and cultures.
Japan, I know, has been affected, very much,
by modernisation.
But Zen taught them certain kind of culture
in which, supposing, you see two Japanese
have a car and they break each other's car,
then they don't say anything.
They come out of their car, one will bow to
another, the another will bow to another,
and get into the car and get out.
Then if they have to claim something, they'll
go to the courts, but there they don't fight,
because what is the need?
And I asked Japanese, "How do you manage it?"
So they said, "But what is the need to fight
there on the street?
Because after all, if it is to be paid, it's
the insurance that is going to pay.
If the car is broken, alright they are going
to pay us.
Why to shout at him?"
It's very sensible and practical, I think.
Why to waste your breath for nothing at all?
You are not going to get anything.
But I have known people who drive, and they
are abusing every person who comes across
on their driving.
I mean, really it's curse of life, the way
some people drive!
And the same way they drive in their own lives.
All the time cursing this, "That one is like
this, this one is bad, that one is doing like
that".
Even in Sahaja Yoga.
They think they have a right to criticize
each and every person except for themselves.
So to keep this peace with others, be on an
apologetic mood.
"I hope I haven't done this mistake."
"I hope I haven't hurt you."
"I hope I haven't put your things in a wrong
way."
Like that.
Be on an apologetic mood.
You can find that among Indians.
Indians have that kind of a problem, they
are more on apologetic mood.
Sometimes, it is impossible to convince them.
I will give you an example.
We went down to Sangli, and you were so full
in the morning and the food was not ready.
So they said that "We cannot have our food
because it is late now and it will be later,
so better we sleep off."
They felt very hurt, you know.
They thought that it was their mistake.
Now, it is registered that we haven't given
food to them, it is a horrid thing we have
done.
And then I had to convince them that they
are no way hurt, they are happy that they
are not eating, they have too much of food.
"No, but still it will be registered in our
name that we didn't offer them food and they
slept without any food."
It was impossible to convince them till the
end, they were all the time feeling apologetic.
You see in Indian culture, we have something
very great, as Japanese, as I told you, that
we are more on the apologetic style.
Never on the aggressive.
Never trying to find faults with others, but
we find faults in what way we have failed,
how we have failed.
This is something to be learned from Indians,
if they have retained their culture at all.
It's actually in their blood.
So that is how, our culture is going to be
such that we will express complete peace within
ourselves.
And you must know that you are in one body,
active.
You are active cells in one body.
All the cells of the body are never active.
But those who are active have to be at peace
with each other, otherwise, what will happen
to that poor body?
So try to make peace.
The second thing you can do to make peace
is to talk less.
Whenever there is a quarrel or anything, just
keep quiet.
You see, it will have better effect.
If two persons are quarrelling, never try
to solve it, but just keep quiet.
Quiet is very important.
More to be silent.
But it should not be another extreme like
English culture, that they just don't talk,
whatever it is.
They don't talk, but, they think too much.
You must keep quiet with the feeling that
'May God bless these people some sense."
It should not be ice frozen sea, but peace
which is effective.
Peace that is effective.
So in this new culture, we have to be extremely
peaceful people.
And that peace should be expressed on your
faces.
People should understand that you are peaceful.
That's why I say, if you are neatly dressed,
your hair are neatly put, people will feel
alright.
Otherwise if you reach some person with dishevelled
hair, you know he gets disturbed as it is!
"God knows what has happened?
From which quarrel this man is coming?
Somebody must have pulled his hair, or must
have something gone wrong with him, that the
way he is dishevelled."
So if you are neatly dressed, people are not
put off so much, because they think that "No,
no, this cannot be, because, you see, after
all, he never had a quarrel.
He's just coming peacefully from his house."
In our culture, neatness in very important.
Neatness of thought, neatness of mind, neatness
of body, neatness of behaviour.
How you do things neatly is very important
in our culture.
That's very, very important!
Which may look very funny to some people.
Because, whether you hold the fork this way
or that way makes no difference to Me.
It doesn't matter how you hold your fork or
knife on a table.
That's not so important.
But it's definitely it's important how you
hold the Aarti, how you hold the Puja things,
how you hold my photographs.
How you hold the things that belong to other
Sahaja Yogis, how you respect the things that
are auspicious.
So that is what one has to have within yourself.
The neatness, of piousness, of auspiciousness,
of holiness.
That is to be done with very great care and
understanding, and with that weight of auspiciousness
you should walk.
With that weight of auspiciousness.
You are auspiciousness walking on this earth,
yourself.
You are peace on this earth.
But the way peace is put into this vessel
has to be clean, has to be neat and has to
be placed in such a way that nothing spills
out.
So to have peace, the best way to put your
mind right, is to think of good things.
Think of the flowers, not of the thorns.
What good things others have done to you.
What good things there are.
What are the beautiful moments you have had,
and count your blessings.
Count your blessings.
Otherwise you cannot create peace.
[Mother tells someone off in Marathi]
You need not pay attention to everything like
that.
Keep your attention at peace.
Keep the peace inside, with your attention
inside.
Actually, if you really allow all my words
to go inside your brain, I'm sure I'll achieve
the results but with a convex mind, it's very
difficult.
Just suck in!
The
another aspect of peace is never try to support
anything that is boisterous or which is destructive.
Anything that is destructive is never to be
supported.
But anybody who is being tortured or aggressed
or dominated, is to be protected and supported.
If you have the strength of peace, you can
do it just by standing there.
You don't have to fight for your peace.
But if it comes to that...
A person like Hitler when he came, people
had to fight for their peace.
Now, the second part of our culture has to
be Bliss.
People should see bliss working in us.
People should feel there is bliss.
If a person is blissful, he looks blissful.
He emits, bliss.
He radiates it.
He doesn't look a miserable, unhappy creature,
who is all the time grudging, grumbling or
worried about little petty things here and
there.
And nobody has the right to disturb anybody's
bliss.
[If] somebody is in a blissful state, try
to copy that person and become that.
But people get jealous of such people who
are blissful and try to disturb!
That's why so many saints were tortured, because
they were so blissful and happy people.
We have to enjoy our bliss within, that is
important.
Perhaps you are not aware of the bliss that
you have.
Not at all aware.
Never, never before there were so many people
who got realisation.
Never before, in the history, that Adi Shakti
Herself came on this earth to solve your problems.
Never before, that people of very ordinary
effort, of very little seeking, of very little
understanding have been given realisation
like this.
It's like, sometimes, if you see, like a stone
becoming a diamond suddenly.
You can cut a diamond from a diamond.
Such blissful state you are in.
It's tremendous bliss has come.
It's so effective.
I myself don't know when I see them.
I'm really surprised how it is working.
Bliss can only come through gratitude.
Only through enlarging your heart with gratitude.
Bliss is the reward of gratitude.
The gratitude which is not just worldly or
just spoken lip-service, but is from the heart,
is from the heart, gratitude of the heart.
And the blissful people are never jealous
of others because what is greater than bliss?
Bliss has so many dimensions that you go beyond
the realm of cause and effects.
All the angels, all the ganas are there to
help you.
You know that it works out.
This way it works out, that....
But you take it for granted.
You don't have that effect of the bliss in
you when you know this has happened, that,
has happened.
What a bliss!
You cross your hearts when you feel blissful.
Cross your hearts and feel that, just see.
Feel the bliss like this -- cross your hearts.
Feel the bliss!
Tremendous bliss is within us.
How much it has happened to us that God has
been so kind.
Will you please put your hands across those
who are sitting down there, please!
The other lady also.
Where is she looking?
You are sitting on a chair, must you look
at every person who is coming?
There is no need!.
Feel it!
May God bless you.
So this bliss when you find everywhere, in
a little thing also you find there is bliss.
Zen taught that to people.
They saw bliss in seeing only a moss, a little
bit of moss, and you see the moss and you
say, "0 God, what a beautiful piece it is!
" God has created little moss, and that moss
has all that little little tentacles, and
that bliss.
But those who are vain people can never feel
bliss.
Vanity kills bliss.
Ego kills bliss.
Once Shivaji was building a huge fort.
And, there it so happened that he got into
ego.
He felt, "See because of this work, so many
people are employed."
[Then] his Guru Ramdasa appeared on the scene.
He himself is the controller of ego, because
he was the incarnation of Hanumana.
So he came and he said "Alright, I want you
to do one thing for me".
He said, "Yes Sir, what do you want me to
do?"
He said, "You break this boulder that is lying
here, such a big boulder, bit by bit."
So it started breaking when people hit it.
And inside came a little stone which he took
up just like a coconut in his hand and he
broke [it].
And there was water and there was a frog inside.
And he realised, Shivaji, that, "if God has
created this frog, He's also given him water.
Who am I to have this ego?"
So the bliss came into him, that God has provided
me with everything.
It's just a red-carpet treatment for me.
What have I done?
Nothing.
It is so beautiful!
How many have got this bliss?
Have sympathy for them.
Have compassion for them, those who do not
have.
But bliss comes to you through your confidence,
If you have no confidence in yourself, bliss
cannot be.
And the worst thing against confidence is
-- "Then what should I do?
Then how can I get it?
Then why not I have?" -- is the worst.
You fighting yourself all the time!
You are that, sitting on that, and still if
you are saying, "Why shouldn't have it," so
what to answer?
I mean you just want to ask because you have
to ask?
It's there.
Why are you asking?
Just feel it!
If that works out, that you feel where you
are sitting, then you'll be surprised that
you are at peace with yourself, and there
is bliss.
Last of all, in this culture, you Have to
behave like people who have authority.
You have the authority of your Spirit.
You are authorised.
You have the Spirit.
Those who are in authority never try to show
off.